In this lesson you're going to continue to expand on our knowledge of acknowledgements by wiring up
our form and our send location button to be a little more helpful for the user.
So for example if I type a message in and I click send the message is indeed sent but the forms not
cleared and I'm not refocused on the input.
The same thing is true with send location depending on how recently it's been fetched it can take up
to two seconds for the location to be fetched and the user interface doesn't let the user know that
anything's actually happening.
So what we're gonna do is mess around with the input from our code and we're also going to enable and
disable our buttons so a user can't send to the location again until the previous send a location action
has finished.
So let's go ahead and knock all of that out by making some changes in Visual Studio code.
Now the first thing we're gonna do is enable and disable event form during the process where the message
is being sent.
So right here this is when we want to disable the form and then down below in the acknowledgement.
This is where we are going to re enable it.
So there's no reason to send a message until the previous one has been sent.
That's also going to prevent accidental double clicks where someone sends the same message twice and
will end up doing a similar thing with send a location a little bit later.
Now we're gonna end up selecting these same elements over and over again.
So instead of typing out the same code over and over again Up Above we'll create variables for the elements
that we're going to be working with.
So right here I'm just going to create a little comment for this section called elements and we're going
to create maybe three different constants one for the form one for the input and one for the button
so we can manipulate all of them in the code down below.
So right here what I'm going to do is prefix all of these with the dollar sign.
So the first one will be dollar sign a message form.
Now the only reason I'm doing this is as a convention.
Letting me know that what I have in this variable is an element from the dom that I've selected.
You don't have to do this.
It is merely a convention to make your code a bit easier to pass and then over here will select it.
So just like we have down below we're gonna use document dot query selector and we'll grab it by its
I.D. That is message hyphen form.
Now instead of needing to type this out down below I can just reference the variable so I'll remove
what I already have up above and just reference message form adding add event listener right on to it.
Next up we're going to also set up elements for the input and the button right here.
Const that's going to be a message of form input equals and we'll actually start with message form and
on there I'll use query selector to find something inside of the form.
And in this case an input is what I'm looking for.
Next I can do the exact same thing for the button.
So const message form button equals.
Right here I will select from message form the following query selector grabbing the button.
Perfect.
And now that we have this in place we have everything we need to start manipulating our button our form
and our input.
Right down below now the first thing we're going to do is disable that submit button.
That's going to disable the entire form.
You won't be able to submit it by clicking enter and you won't be able to submit it by clicking the
button.
So right here that is message of form button and we're gonna do just a little bit of Dom manipulation.
So dot set attribute allows us to set attributes on our H2 UML elements.
And right here what are we going to do.
We're going to set disabled to disable it and the value is the same as the actual attribute name.
So disabled for the value as well.
So this line of code just disables the form once it's been submitted.
Now we're not re enabling it at all.
So let's see what this looks like.
And the browser.
I'll give my browser a refresh.
Right here I'll type a message in I'll click send and we can see that the button has been disabled I
can't click it again and if I try to hit enter over here nothing's happening either.
The message is not getting sent more than just once.
Now that we've successfully disabled the button we do want to make sure that we eventually reach enable
it and we're going to re enable it in our acknowledgement callback down below.
Now I want to re enable it regardless of whether or not we got an error.
So I'll add that right here that is a message of form button and we are going to use remove attribute
to remove an attribute we remove it by its name and the name is disabled.
Perfect.
Now if we go ahead and rerun things once again I can type a message in I can go ahead and click send
it's disabled for just a moment then it's re enabled.
So I can send off more messages.
Next up I want to make sure to clear that input after the message has been sent.
So right here will add a little bit of code to get that done as well what we're going to do is start
with message form input.
And here we're going to set value to set the value for the input.
And I'm gonna set it equal to an empty string to clear it.
We can also move the focus back to the input by using the focused method available on message form input.
So right here let's reference it just one more time and we'll call focus to move the cursor inside of
there.
Now that's going to give us a pretty good setup where we enable the button after the event has been
acknowledged.
I'm going to go ahead and remove those comments and we'll test things out.
So right here I'm going to save chat dot J S once again I'll be refreshing the browser and I'll go ahead
and type something in my message I'll click enter and I can see that I do have an error message from
input I have a small typo there.
So let's go ahead and just fix that over here.
I can see I typed Frome instead of form I can save the program and I can run things again.
Now we'll try another message hit enter and we can see everything works as expected.
The input was cleared and my focus is right here.
Now if I type a message in and move my focus away from the input and click send the focus is brought
back which is great.
This allows me to type messages really quickly.
So one two three back to back like you would expect.
Now with this in place for the form you're going to do something similar for send a location.
We want to disable that button.
Well we're fetching the location and sending it to the server will re enable it.
Once the event has been acknowledged down below I have some challenge comments outlining what I'd like
you to do.
So let's quickly go over them and then I'll set you loose.
So right here you're going to disable these send location button Well the location is being sent.
Step 1.
You want to set up a selector at the top of the file just like we did for the other three elements.
We've been working with then you're going to disable that send location button just before the current
position is fetched.
So right here after we know that we're actually going to fetch it because they have geo location but
just before we actually start that fetching process.
Then from there you'll real enable the button after the acknowledgement callback fires.
So once we've confirmed the event has been sent Will we enable it allowing them to send their location
again.
Then you're gonna go ahead and test your work.
So in the end of the day the button should function very similarly to what it's doing now.
But during that process where the location is being sent the button should be disabled.
All right knock that out and when you're done come back and click play
Oh right.
How'd that go.
Let's kick things off with step number one.
We're gonna stay organized by selecting our elements.
Now right here we are using send a location the button and we'll end up using it a bunch more.
So what I'm going to do is copy this to the clipboard and bring it up top up here.
We'll create a new element and you could have called it whatever you wanted to but dollar sign send
location button seems like a pretty good name.
And right here we'll paste in the exact selector we had before.
Now that's it for Step 1 down below what I'm going to do is just refactor this right here.
It's no longer necessary we can just reference our variable instead and we're still using ad event listener
correctly.
So next up we want to disable the button just before getting the current position.
So that's right here.
There's no need to disable it before we check if we're even gonna be able to fetch the location.
So right here we will once again reference send location button.
That's why I wanted to break it out into its own variable and then we will go ahead and use set attribute
to disable it.
Setting disabled equal to disabled.
Now from there we want to make sure that we do re enable it in the future.
But let's go ahead and test things out as they are.
So far I'll refresh the browser.
I'll click send location.
It is indeed disabled.
I cannot click it again.
All we're gonna do now is make sure that it gets re enabled after the location was fetched.
So right here let's get that done down below in our acknowledgment either before or after our console
dialog we're going to enable the button once again.
So that is send a location button this time using remove an attribute and removing disabled.
Excellent.
Now the last thing left to do is to test our work.
So I'm going to remove these challenge comments and make sure everything is functional from inside of
the browser.
I'll save all of my files refresh the browser and attempt to send to the location.
Right here I'll send the location and I can see the button is now disabled.
Well it's fetching that location and once the location prints the button is re enabled allowing me to
click it again and send to the location again.
Now that we have this in place we just have a slightly nicer user interface for our users giving them
clearer feedback as to what's happening with this in place we're going to continue on to the next lesson
and focus on getting our messages rendered to the user interface as opposed to just showing up in the
console down below.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's jump right in to the next one.